# Overlay Face

Overlay a face with  different target images according to the position and posture of the face in an image or video, based on OpenCV and dlib. Simply call it *change face (low level)*.

While there have already been well-performing algorithms for changing faces in an image or a video, the traditional way of overlaying another picture on the face still has its advantages especially when the second picture is not a face image. For example, if the goal is to change a face/head into a cartoon character or a pig head, most AI face changing algorithms won't work well. Another problem with most AI face changing methods is that they do not focus on changing the hair while sometimes hair the hair of the original head is not needed (also look at the case of changing a real man's head to a cartoon character). Although with DeepFaceLab, the full head can be replaced, and with some algorithms anime characters can be generated from the pose of a head (on which VTubers are based), the cost is often high when collecting data (especially when the sample of targeted head/face is limited). People have to turn to overlaying the face with target picture in these cases.

This project aims at making this overlaying process easier. A head pose estimator and a stabilizer is used, after which the target image is cropped and zoomed before overlaying the face. Head pose is used for choosing which of the target images to use. In this way, only several target images are needed to overlay the face in the original image/video, although the face changing process is at a low level.

Another usage is to just overlay part of the face. For example, a cartoon-style pig nose is overlain on the nose of the face.